Liverpool, Man Utd No.10 target says he’s well suited in Spain

Norway star Martin Odegaard has cooled talk of a move to Liverpool or Manchester United by pledging his immediate future to his loan club.

The 20-year-old joined Real Sociedad on loan from Real Madrid this summer and the attacker has every intention of seeing out his two-year loan spell  after settling in brilliantly in LaLiga.

After struggling to make an impact with Madrid, a side he joined as a 16-year-old, he was loaned out to Heerenveen and Vitesse before moving to Real Sociedad.

Odegaard has responded with a fine run of form for Sociedad and was awarded La Liga’s Player of the Month gong for September.

Both Man Utd and Liverpool have been linked with the player, with Calciomercato claiming Odegaard was the man Jurgen Klopp wanted to finally fill the void left by Philippe Coutinho.

The Sun claimed recently that United will target Odegaard in a £25m move next summer, while Arsenal have also been mentioned as suitors for the Norwegian.



Odegaard though says he’s well suited in Spain, he told Eurosport: “I am on a team that suits me very well. They are playing my style of football and I have a good role in the team.

“It was no problem to get into the culture of the team and there are so many good people in the team. I am having a nice time.

“It is easy to deliver when the whole package is there.

“The plan is to continue the form. I have a deal with Real Sociedad now and I am happy at the club.

“That’s how it is going to be until the end of the deal.”


Odegaard, who was a €3m signing for Real in 2015, recently claimed he was still desperate to make an impact at Real Madrid and says his parent club still keep an eye on his progress.

“I have contact with some persons in the club. Sometimes I get a message, but it is mainly Real Sociedad that gives me feedback on my development,” Odegaard added.

“Real Sociedad is closest, but Real Madrid is in the picture sometimes. Mainly it is Real Sociedad and their staff.

“Real Madrid gives me some feedback and now it has been congratulations, praises and that they are happy.

“But in the tactical aspect Real Sociedad gives me feedback on those things.”