Despite the advancement of technology and boom of online casinos that have made it easy for people to play their favorite casino games on their smartphones and computers, this has not stopped casino lovers from traveling to different places to gamble. Many travelers cross countries and oceans to set their feet in some of the contemporary classic places with large casino complexes that are, frankly speaking, a lot more than that. Casinos aren’t dark, mysterious places anymore. They are luxurious resorts that provide countless entertainment options. Perhaps this is the main reason why online casinos haven’t completely wiped out traditional casinos. In fact, a lot of countries today are trying hard to develop emerging alternative casino cities to attract more tourists. However, there are several popular gambling destinations that attract thousands of gamblers from around the world every day. This article is about them!

Macau





Get my best travel hacks, tips, and deals straight in your inbox
Enter Your Email Address
 Life lessons I learned as an expat living in India
Play Video
With more than 30 luxurious casino resorts, Macau’s casino tourism industry is a multi-billion dollar business. According to Forbes, the city in the South China Sea receives millions of gambling tourists from Mainland China, Hong Kong, and other places around the world every year. According to statistics, about 15% of locals participate in gambling. Forbes also ranks six casinos from Macau among the 20 largest in the world.

Macau is known for its eclectic skyscrapers that house some of the best casinos in the world. Grand Macau and Casino Lisboa are among the most popular casinos in the city. You can visit “the Las Vegas of Asia” even when you are not a high roller. China is home to some of the most renowned casinos for betting all over the world, and there’s no better place to visit that the gambling capital itself, Macau.




USA
casino las vegas

This list couldn’t be complete without the USA and the gambling capital of the world, Las Vegas. The city has been featured countless times in a lot of famous songs, films, books, and TV shows. The experience of visiting this Sin City in the middle of the desert cannot be matched by most other casino tourism destinations.




If you’re planning to visit Vegas soon, check out the Best of Vegas and get up to 40% on all shows, attractions, and tours in the city.

Las Vegas is known for roulette, dice, and other casino games. You are likely to come across slot machines in hotels, gas stations, and even grocery stores! However, this isn’t the only gambling hub in the US. You will also find some decent alternatives to Vegas around the country. Some of them include Atlantic City, Reno, Fort Lauderdale, and even big cities like New Orleans and Philadelphia.

Singapore





The city-state of Singapore is one of Asia’s fastest rising casino destinations. With so many entertainment complexes, visitors in this city can engage in countless activities. Although Singapore may have a fewer number of casinos than Las Vegas, Macau, and other destinations, the Lion city receives millions of tourists from different parts of the world.

Gambling was illegal in Singapore until 2005 and still is today for locals (but not for foreigners). Since legalizing gambling in the mid-2000s, various casinos have opened in the country, including two of the world’s biggest casino resorts; Aegean Paradise Cruise and Marina Bay Sands, making Singapore one of the best gambling destinations in Asia. Additionally, Singapore has a lot more to offer than just gambling and one can never run out of things to do in Singapore.




United Kingdom
London




If you want to visit first-class casinos, London should definitely cross your mind. London is not just Europe’s financial hub, it’s a popular casino tourism destination that welcomes millions of casino lovers every year. Tourists in this city can also indulge in other activities, such as visiting the Buckingham Palace and Big Ben, attend sports and royal events, etc.

Unlike most of the other casino centers in the world, there are only a few hotels and casino resorts in London. However, new casinos have emerged (and still are) since the country deregulated the industry in the mid-2000s not only in London but in other cities too. A few other casino cities in the UK worth mentioning are Glasgow, Bournemouth, Stoke, Cardiff, etc.

Monaco
monaco at night



Monaco is said to be the oldest gambling resort in the world, with Monte Carlo offering casino games since 1863. Hence, it’s no surprise that today, Monaco is home to some of the world’s best casinos.

However, unlike most of the gambling destinations, Monte Carlo is a playground for rich and famous people. Therefore, if you’re not invited or are not a wealthy person, you may not be allowed in some casinos but even if you don’t plan on gambling you can check out a museum themed according to a 19th-century casino that regularly hosts events such as the Poker Stars Championships that attracts celebrities from around the world.

Cambodia
sihanoukville




Sihanoukville in Cambodia is the epicenter of China’s investment in Cambodia. This was once a small, charming coastal town that’s slowly turning into one of Southeast Asia’s main casino tourism hubs. Today, this city welcomes more than 1.5 million visitors, many of whom come here to gamble. Many locals are rightfully concerned that this might turn the once peaceful town into a playground for rich Chinese investors and take a toll on the authenticity of the place.

However, there are a lot of new casino complexes getting opened around the country as well. Cambodia has more than 150 casinos today, which is an increase of 53% compared to 2017; a pace of development that can easily compare to some of the much more famous destinations on this list.




The Bahamas
Paradise Island, Bahamas




Unlike most of the destinations on this list, the Bahamas combine luxurious casino complexes with a fair share of sunshine and beautiful white-sand beaches. The Atlantis Resort on Paradise Island is arguably the most renowned casino complex in the Caribbean. It hosts its own annual PokerStars Caribbean tournament, it’s home to some impressive glass sculptures, and it even has its own seven-acre lagoon…