European Qualifiers: How are England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland faring?
England and Republic of Ireland top their groups; Northern Ireland and Wales still in contention for qualification; Scotland face battle to reach next summer's tournament
As we approach the business end of the European Qualifiers, which nations are edging towards next summer's tournament? And who is in danger of missing out?

Domestic football makes way for internationals over the next week, with a whole host of European Qualifiers being shown live on Sky Sports.

When and where is Euro 2020?
Euro 2020 Qualifiers: Fixtures | Tables | Live on Sky
Sponsored link
Cristiano Ronaldo Selling Former Manchester Mansion for £3.25M
Cristiano Ronaldo Selling Former Manchester Mansion for £3.25M
Mansion Global
Recommended by
But how is each group shaping up? From the runaway leaders to ties at the top, we look at the state of play going into October's qualifiers…

Group A - England aim to book finals spot
Coming up: October 11 - Czech Republic v England, Montenegro v Bulgaria; October 14 - Bulgaria v England, Kosovo v Montenegro

It's starting to look like a case of when, not if, for England. After an entertaining win over nearest-rivals Kosovo last time out, they already have a four-point cushion inside the qualification places and a game in hand.


Watch highlights of England's 5-3 win over Kosovo
A win over Czech Republic on Friday will seal their path to the finals, and they could guarantee top spot too if they do the double and beat Bulgaria next week - or Kosovo fail to take maximum points at home to Montenegro.

The second spot is much more up for grabs. Czech Republic are currently second but could be leapfrogged by Kosovo if they fail to beat England on October 11. Montenegro and Bulgaria, both winless with two points each, will need something approaching a miracle to finish inside the top two.

Cristiano Ronaldo once again proved that he’s still at the very top of his game with another four goals for Portugal in their European Qualifier against Lithuania
Coming up: October 11 - Portugal v Luxembourg, Ukraine v Lithuania; October 14 - Ukraine v Portugal, Lithuania v Serbia

Life is looking pretty rosy at the top of Group B for Ukraine, who look set to qualify for their third Euro finals in a row. A win over Lithuania on Friday would all-but see them through; four more points would definitely be enough.

Portugal are far from assured of a chance to retain the trophy they won in France in 2016, but they do have a game in hand over third-placed Serbia and a win over minnows Luxembourg would give them some breathing space.

Luxembourg's unlikely shot at a place will be over with defeat to Portugal, while Lithuania must provide a huge shock in Ukraine if they want to keep their dreams alive.
Jamal Lewis has been named in the Northern Ireland squad despite an elbow injury
Coming up: October 10 - Netherlands v Northern Ireland, Belarus v Estonia; October 13 - Belarus v Netherlands, Estonia v Germany

Northern Ireland's perfect start was ripped apart by Germany last time out but Michael O'Neill's side still have their destiny in their own hands. A tough trip to the Netherlands, who have been back with a bang over the past 12 months, awaits on Thursday night but even defeat in that wouldn't be fatal, although it would be a bitter blow.

Leaders Germany could find themselves leapfrogged by Netherlands by the end of the international break, especially if they are held themselves by Estonia on Sunday, while Belarus must beat Estonia too to stand any outside chance.
David McGoldrick scored his first Ireland goal five years after his international debut against Switzerland
Coming up: October 12 - Georgia v Republic of Ireland, Denmark v Switzerland; October 15 - Switzerland v Republic of Ireland, Gibraltar v Georgia

Republic of Ireland look in good shape after their comeback draw with Switzerland last month and beating Georgia next time out would leave them in sterling shape, especially with nearest challengers Denmark and Switzerland going head-to-head on the same night.

Should Switzerland fail to win that one, if Ireland take maximum points in Georgia it would give them a chance to qualify on Sunday.

Georgia's surprise draw with Denmark last time out gave them their fourth point of qualifying, but they could be eliminated this weekend - worse news for Gibraltar, who have lost every game and are already out of contention.
Aaron Ramsey will be assessed ahead of Wales' Euro Qualifiers
Coming up: October 10 - Croatia v Hungary, Slovakia v Wales; October 13 - Hungary v Azerbaijan, Wales v Croatia

Wales might be fourth in Group E but things are not all as they seem. A win over second-placed Slovakia on Thursday would take them level with a game in hand, and with first and third going head-to-head on the same night it's near enough a must-win game for Ryan Giggs.

Croatia's blip against Hungary aside they've been pretty consistent up at the top, but there's a reason Hungary qualified for the last Euros and they're very much still in it with nine points from five games.

Azerbaijan are already out, despite an eye-catching draw with Croatia in September.
Group F - Spain set for finals
Coming up: October 12 - Faroe Islands v Romania, Norway v Spain, Malta v Sweden; October 15 - Sweden v Spain, Romania v Norway, Faroe Islands v Malta

Spain's perfect record has them as good as through and they can book their place in the finals this weekend.


Spain eased past Faroe Islands last time out
That aside second place is up in the air, with Sweden, Romania and Norway separated by two points with two games to go. Romania will be very pleased they're the only side of the three not to play Spain this weekend - and they host Norway next Tuesday in a game that could have big consequences.

Further down Malta and Faroe Islands are both way back, with only three points to show between them - although that will definitely change when they go head-to-head next Tuesday.

Group F
P	W	D	L	Pts
Spain	6	6	0	0	18
Sweden	6	3	2	1	11
Romania	6	3	1	2	10
Norway	6	2	3	1	9
Malta	6	1	0	5	3
Faroe Islands	6	0	0	6	0
Group G - It's tight at the top
Coming up: October 10 - Latvia v Poland, Austria v Israel, North Macedonia v Slovenia; October 13 - Poland v North Macedonia, Slovenia v Austria

It's all a little bit congested at the top of Group G, with only five points separating the top five teams. Poland, who are two points clear of Slovenia, have taken the bull by the horns and have pointless Latvia up next, so will be confident of earning at least one win this week.

Slovenia's run of three wins in a row has lifted them up to second but they have Austria, who are a point behind them, breathing down their necks.

North Macedonia and Israel are five points behind Poland, but with 12 points to play for from the final four games, they are still in contention for the qualification places.

Group G
P	W	D	L	Pts
Poland	6	4	1	1	13
Slovenia	6	3	2	1	11
Austria	6	3	1	2	10
North Macedonia	6	2	2	2	8
Israel	6	2	2	2	8
Latvia	6	0	0	6	0
Group H - A big week for France
Kingsley Coman (R) celebrates with Antoine Griezmann and Olivier Giroud
Kingsley Coman (R) celebrates with Antoine Griezmann and Olivier Giroud
Coming up: October 11 - Iceland v France, Turkey v Albania, Andorra v Moldova; October 14 - France v Turkey, Iceland v Andorra, Moldova v Albania

It's a pivotal week in Group H as France get set to face Iceland and Turkey. Two wins from two for Didier Deschamps' side, who currently sit second in the group behind Turkey on goal difference and three points ahead of third-placed Iceland, would see them take a huge stride towards qualification.

Albania, who are six points behind Turkey and France, will be hoping they can still sneak into the qualification spots with four games to go, but there's not much room for error for Edoardo Reja's side.

Group H
P	W	D	L	Pts
Turkey	6	5	0	1	15
France	6	5	0	1	15
Iceland	6	4	0	2	12
Albania	6	3	0	3	9
Moldova	6	1	0	5	3
Andorra	6	0	0	6	0
Group I - One last chance for Scotland
Coming up: October 10 - Kazakhstan v Cyprus, Belgium v San Marino, Russia v Scotland; October 13 - Kazakhstan v Belgium, Cyprus v Russia, Scotland v San Marino

Belgium have a perfect record in qualification so far and they can confirm their place in next summer's tournament with victory against San Marino or a draw between Kazakhstan and Cyprus.

0:35

Scotland boss Steve Clarke explains Arsenal full-back Kieran Tierney’s squad omission ahead of the Euro 2020 qualifying double-header against Russia and San Marino
It's also a final throw of the dice for Scotland in Group I. Steve Clarke's side must beat Russia to have any chance of qualifying, but if they don't they could still reach Euro 2020 as they are guaranteed a play-off place for winning their Nations League group.

Group I could be done and dusted on Thursday if Russia, who are eight points clear of Cyprus and Kazakhstan in third and fourth respectively, beat Scotland and Kazakhstan draw with Cyprus.

Group I
P	W	D	L	Pts
Belgium	6	6	0	0	18
Russia	6	5	0	1	15
Kazakhstan	6	2	1	3	7
Cyprus	6	2	1	3	7
Scotland	6	2	0	4	6
San Marino	6	0	0	6	0
Group J - Italy lead the way
Coming up: October 12 - Bosnia and Herzegovina v Finland, Italy v Greece, Liechtenstein v Armenia; October 13 - Liechtenstein v Italy, Greece v Bosnia and Herzegovina, Finland v Armenia

There's still plenty to play for in Group J with Finland, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Greece all still vying to finish in the qualification places with Italy, who have won all six of their games so far.

Roberto Mancini's side will qualify with victory over Greece, who need all three points to stay in contention on Saturday.

Finland, who have 12 points from their six games so far, currently sit second in the group and are on course to make their debut at a major finals. However, they face two big games against Bosnia and Herzegovina, who are five points behind Finland, and Armenia, who are third in the group, three points behind the Finns.

Group J
P	W	D	L	Pts
Italy	6	6	0	0	18
Finland	6	4	0	2	12
Armenia	6	3	0	3	9
Bosnia and Herzegovina	6	2	1	3	7
Greece	6	1	2	3	5
Lichtenstein	6	0	1	5	1
European Qualifiers on Sky Sports
Thursday

Kazakhstan vs Cyprus - Thursday October 10, live on Sky Sports Football; Kick-off 3pm
Belarus vs Estonia - Thursday October 10, live on Sky Sports Football; Kick-off 5pm
Netherlands vs Northern Ireland - Thursday October 10, live on Sky Sports Main Event; Kick-off 7.45pm
Russia vs Scotland - Thursday October 10, live on Sky Sports Football; Kick-off 7.45pm
Slovakia vs Wales - Thursday October 10, live on Sky Sports Premier League; Kick-off 7.45pm
Belgium vs San Marino - Thursday October 10, live on Sky Sports Football - red button; Kick-off 7.45pm
Four other games on red button on Friday - full schedule here
Friday

Iceland vs France - Friday October 11, live on Sky Sports Football; Kick-off 7.45pm
Portugal vs Luxembourg - Friday October 11, live on Sky Sports Premier League; Kick-off 7.45pm
Four other games on red button on Friday - full schedule here
Saturday

Georgia vs Republic of Ireland - Saturday October 12, live on Sky Sports Football and Main Event; Kick-off 2pm
Denmark vs Switzerland - Saturday October 12, live on Sky Sports Football; Kick-off 5pm
Italy vs Greece - Saturday October 12, live on Sky Sports Premier League; Kick-off 7.45pm
Norway vs Spain - Saturday October 12, live on Sky Sports Football; Kick-off 7.45pm
Three other games on red button on Friday - full schedule here
Sunday

Also See:
Euro 2020 qualifying fixtures
 
Euro 2020 qualifying tables
 
Live football on Sky Sports this week
 
Find out more about Sky Sports
Kazakhstan vs Belgium - Sunday October 13, live on Sky Sports Football and Main Event; Kick-off 2pm
Belarus vs Netherlands - Sunday October 13, live on Sky Sports Premier League; Kick-off 5pm
Scotland vs San Marino - Sunday October 13, live on Sky Sports Football and Main Event; Kick-off 5pm
Estonia vs Germany - Sunday October 13, live on Sky Sports Premier League; Kick-off 7.45pm
Wales vs Croatia - Sunday October 13, live on Sky Sports Football and Main Event; Kick-off 7.45pm
Four other games on red button on Friday - full schedule here
Monday

France vs Turkey - Monday October 14, live on Sky Sports Football, Main Event and Mix; Kick-off 7.45pm
Ukraine vs Portugal - Monday October 14, live on Sky Sports Premier League; Kick-off 7.45pm
Four other games on red button on Friday - full schedule here
Tuesday

Finland vs Armenia - Tuesday October 15, live on Sky Sports Football; Kick-off 5pm
Liechtenstein vs Italy - Tuesday October 15, live on Sky Sports Football; Kick-off 7.45pm
Sweden vs Spain - Tuesday October 15, live on Sky Sports Premier League; Kick-off 7.45pm
Switzerland vs Republic of Ireland - Tuesday October 15, live on Sky Sports Mix and Main Event; Kick-off 7.45pm
Five other games on red button on Friday - full schedule here
	
Soccer Saturday Super 6
FREE TO PLAY: Do not miss your chance to land the £250,000 jackpot for the fifth time this year!

Sponsored Links
The cloud for today's developer
DigitalOcean
Want to See How Celebrities Really Live? See Inside These Homes That Are Currently on the Market
Want to See How Celebrities Really Live? See Inside These Homes That Are Currently on the Market
Mansion Global by Dow Jones
25 Insanely Cool Products You Didn't Know You Needed
25 Insanely Cool Products You Didn't Know You Needed
Next Tech
Ukraine: This New Air Conditioner With No Installation Necessary Is Selling Out
Ukraine: This New Air Conditioner With No Installation Necessary Is Selling Out
Next Tech
Ukraine: New WiFi Booster Stops Expensive Internet
Ukraine: New WiFi Booster Stops Expensive Internet
Next Tech
No Language is "Foreign" with This Brilliant Japanese Invention
No Language is "Foreign" with This Brilliant Japanese Invention
Next Tech
More from Sky
Greta Thunberg effigy found hanging from Italian bridge
Greta Thunberg effigy found hanging from Italian bridge
Greta Thunberg effigy found hanging from Italian bridge
Man struck by lightning saved by CPR
Man struck by lightning saved by CPRMan struck by lightning saved by CPR
Man struck by lightning saved by CPR
Sponsored Links
The Strange Link Between Eggs And Diabetes (Watch)
The Strange Link Between Eggs And Diabetes (Watch)
Health Today
Find Inspiration in New York's Most Luxurious Mansions
Find Inspiration in New York's Most Luxurious Mansions
Mansion Global
More from Sky
Joker screening cancelled in US after 'credible threat'
Joker screening cancelled in US after 'credible threat'
Joker screening cancelled in US after 'credible threat'
Hong Kong: Man punched for saying 'we are all Chinese'
Hong Kong: Man punched for saying 'we are all Chinese'Hong Kong: Man punched for saying 'we are all Chinese'
Hong Kong: Man punched for saying 'we are all Chinese'
Sponsored Links
A Simple Way People Over 50 Are Controlling Their Diabetes (Watch)
A Simple Way People Over 50 Are Controlling Their Diabetes (Watch)
Health Today
Discover the Most Luxurious Homes in Dubai
Discover the Most Luxurious Homes in Dubai
Mansion Global
Popular in the Community
Sponsored

MANCHESTER UNITED'S OPPONENTS NO LONGER INTIMIDATED, SAY SUNDAY SUPPLEMENT PANEL
Maureen
4d
Long may this downfall continue
MANCHESTER CITY'S AGE PROFILE MAKES PREMIER LEAGUE DOMINATION LIKELY
Prince Anthony
5 Jul
Manchester City's target this season should be to win the Champions league.... I want England to dominate Europe for years because we have had enough of Spain! Liverpool should be targeting the Premier league this season after missing out by one point....
HOW WOULD BARCELONA LINE UP WITH NEYMAR, LIONEL MESSI, LUIS SUAREZ AND ANTOINE GRIEZMANN?
Jason Morris-Jung
22 Jul
Media still does not completely get what a footballing disaster the galactico era was. Years 2001-2003 were successful because the tremendous team that Del Bosque had been building since 2000 was only gradually being dismantled (remember in 2002 only Figo and Ronaldo were newly signed galacticos). And then what happened in 2003? Del Bosque was dismissed (he wasn't renewed), Beckham signed, who along with Zidane a year earlier, now had an unbalanced team that set many new records for losses and winless seasons. That is football by Fiorentino.
SHOULD BRYSON DECHAMBEAU HAVE BEEN PENALISED FOR SLOW PLAY?
Samuel Tukamushaba
11 Aug
OVER - Yeah - sure they all do. WELL over??? Not too sure.
VAR IN THE PREMIER LEAGUE: EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW
Flatulent 007
20 Aug
Oh dear. I swear to the heavens, football journalism these days, is poor. Between incessant articles about Man Utd and the players they are not really linked with, pishpoor transfer speculation, race-baiting, political tripe of all kinds - I mean we even have to pay women footballers who have been in the sport ten minutes, the same as men now... Didn't take them long to ruin football, along with all else they've infected!Now we've got the endless ramblings of too many pundits, fairweathers and plastics, moaning about 'VAR'. TURN IT IN! Talk football. The rest is carp! It's what some suit who hated football in school, decided we all want to read every day.Let's get it straight. VAR is long overdue. While the results can still be manipulated, we've taken a massive step to eradicating favouritism, bad reffing, big teams getting it all their own way due to shouting loudest etc. NO more fake goals, no more Henry handballs, no more Diego and his 'Hand of God', no more world cups ruined by shoddy goal line decisions and clear off-sides not being given. It's all gone. And still... people are going on as if football 'was better' when you couldn't hope for a fair result! We've got pundits who played the game, only changing their opinion every five minutes, because suits who produce the shows, force them too for hits.
OLE GUNNAR SOLSKJAER'S THREE KEY CHALLENGES AT MANCHESTER UNITED
Prince Anthony
13 Jul
Tough times for Manchester United but I must say Pogba has acted this whole dilemma professionally despite the fact he wants to leave when you compare Neymar and Griezman not returning back for pre-season but I don't see Juventus or Real Madrid paying £150,000,000 for Pogba so he's got to stay, be a good boy and respect his contract. Love him or hate him, he is still the main man at United and if Ole could motivate him once again the way he did last season then that would be good news because if Pogba is motivated and plays to his full potential, the whole team will be happy and play better and Utd have the ability to finish teams off..... Utd won't miss Lukaku at all! They have a fine, young, English striker in Rashford with blistering pace and an eye for goal so Utd attack looks promising regardless
DANI CEBALLOS: SPANIARD WILL ADD NEW DIMENSION TO ARSENAL'S MIDFIELD
Semakula Jaywhite
25 Jul
His arrival will be of great advantage . Right now at Arsenal, we need to improve each department more especially the center backs plus the right backs
FRANK LAMPARD'S CHELSEA IN-TRAY: PROVE HIMSELF, TRY TO REPLACE EDEN HAZARD, BLOOD YOUTH
Prince Anthony
4 Jul
I expect Lampard to be a success at Chelsea in his first season as manager for the following reasons; He is a club Legend, He is English and with Jody Morris his assistant who knows the academy quite well, He will be able to maximize the talents of the youth academy. Lampard will also develop an easy connection with the fans which is also necessary for his teams success...
MAURIZIO SARRI AND CRISTIANO RONALDO: COMBINATION FOR SUCCESS AT JUVENTUS?
kyleod02
29 Jul
it says unmarkable not un remarkable
WHAT'S GONE WRONG FOR NEYMAR AT PARIS ST-GERMAIN?
Red_Hand_Devil
9 Jul
As great a Footballer he is - that lad has the sickening ability to destroy the harmony - from top to bottom - at any Football Club he's at. He's toxic. Every club has it's difficult players, but Neymar is on a whole different stratosphere.It beggers belief that Barca want him back after the manner in which he left; but it's quite obvious that Messi is the one that's leading the charge to bring back - regardless of how it looks on Barca. The one thing that annoys me the most - is why haven't PSG been FFP investigated over the initial transfer from Barca?! PSG are a small fish in a big pond & have zero history. They were only formed in the mid-70's & they've no worldwide fanbase to generate the huge sums of expenditure on players. They can't even fill their stadium, either & the only shirts they sell is in Paris. So where's all the revenue coming from, I ask?It comes from the same place City's revenue comes from - their oil-rich Arab owners & them giving money to their Arab oil-rich mates to sponsor their shirts & everything else. They're not legitimate sponsorship deals. It's in a sense - money laundering!
COULD REAL MADRID WRITE OFF GARETH BALE'S FEE? OR WILL WELSHMAN BE STUCK AT THE BERNABEU?
Anthony Tracey
23 Jul
Man Utd and Real should do a Bale and Sanchez swap. Utd get more upside if Bale can perform but take on more salary risk. Madrid are so desperate to offload him they might just do it...
FRANK LAMPARD RETURNS TO CHELSEA: TRANSFERS, STYLE OF FOOTBALL AND EXPECTATIONS
Juno Sibbz
2 Jul
We have just about enough talent to get through the group stages and top 6 which for me is enough for a 1st season
SEAN LONGSTAFF TO MANCHESTER UNITED? THE MAKING OF A MIDFIELDER
SausageandEgg
16 Jul
Why would he stay?Good manager left, replaced with a poor one.Two top goal scorers left, bought no one inAshley penny pinching at the club, no investmentHe can go to a United team that is rebuilding, he will have to work hard and prove himself to make first team week in week out, but if he is confident, give it ago.Newcastle are going nowhere sadly under Ashley, and if we do not sell that club soon, we will be mid table Championship before longFrom a frustrated Toon fan
NEWCASTLE LATEST: STEVE BRUCE, TAKEOVER, TRANSFERS
Mark Bacon
11 Jul
Sky sports are as guilty as the rest of the national media of peddling Ashley’s PR lies, rolling out his cronies whenever he has any negative press to tell anyone who will listen ‘what a great job he has done’, whilst he has systematically asset stripped the club and pocketed the TV cash, 12 years of shameless ownership. Shame on YOU and the FA for doing nothing to investigate and challenge this shameless, odious man blights our club! He will never leave or sell until his cash cow runs dry ! #boycottarsenal #emptyforashley #ashleyout
FRANK LAMPARD: WILL CHELSEA'S YOUNG PLAYERS FLOURISH UNDER NEW BOSS?
MCW711
4 Jul
I'm not sure it's a blessing but I agree with you on it being good to force younger players to get a chance. Frank coming back could potentially be special, who knows. Football's a funny game and the perfect storm can arise without spending a ton of moneyAnyway good luck for the season from a Liverpool fan
That aside second place is up in the air, with Sweden, Romania and Norway separated by two points with two games to go. Romania will be very pleased they're the only side of the three not to play Spain this weekend - and they host Norway next Tuesday in a game that could have big consequences.

Further down Malta and Faroe Islands are both way back, with only three points to show between them - although that will definitely change when they go head-to-head next Tuesday.
It's all a little bit congested at the top of Group G, with only five points separating the top five teams. Poland, who are two points clear of Slovenia, have taken the bull by the horns and have pointless Latvia up next, so will be confident of earning at least one win this week.

Slovenia's run of three wins in a row has lifted them up to second but they have Austria, who are a point behind them, breathing down their necks.

North Macedonia and Israel are five points behind Poland, but with 12 points to play for from the final four games, they are still in contention for the qualification places.

It's a pivotal week in Group H as France get set to face Iceland and Turkey. Two wins from two for Didier Deschamps' side, who currently sit second in the group behind Turkey on goal difference and three points ahead of third-placed Iceland, would see them take a huge stride towards qualification.

Albania, who are six points behind Turkey and France, will be hoping they can still sneak into the qualification spots with four games to go, but there's not much room for error for Edoardo Reja's side.

It's also a final throw of the dice for Scotland in Group I. Steve Clarke's side must beat Russia to have any chance of qualifying, but if they don't they could still reach Euro 2020 as they are guaranteed a play-off place for winning their Nations League group.

Group I could be done and dusted on Thursday if Russia, who are eight points clear of Cyprus and Kazakhstan in third and fourth respectively, beat Scotland and Kazakhstan draw with Cyprus.
There's still plenty to play for in Group J with Finland, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Greece all still vying to finish in the qualification places with Italy, who have won all six of their games so far.

Roberto Mancini's side will qualify with victory over Greece, who need all three points to stay in contention on Saturday.

Finland, who have 12 points from their six games so far, currently sit second in the group and are on course to make their debut at a major finals. However, they face two big games against Bosnia and Herzegovina, who are five points behind Finland, and Armenia, who are third in the group, three points behind the Finns.


